The pkgsrc-2008Q3 Branch
========================
 
The pkgsrc developers are very proud to announce the new pkgsrc-2008Q3
branch, which has support for more packages than previous branches. 
As well as updated versions of many packages, the infrastructure of
pkgsrc itself has been improved for better platform and compiler
support.
 
At the same time, the pkgsrc-2008Q2 branch has been deprecated, and
continuing engineering starts on the pkgsrc-2008Q3 branch.
 
With more than ten years of pkgsrc development behind us, we would
like to take this opportunity to thank all of the people who have made
pkgsrc the most portable packaging system in the world - to all of the
users, developers and supporters a very large "Thank you" from all of
us.
 
Some highlights of the new pkgsrc-2008Q3 branch are:
 
+ a new ruby gems framework, from Stoned Elipot and Johnny Lam
+ many more packages have been moved to install into a staging directory -
the DESTDIR work that Joerg Sonnenberger has done almost singlehandedly
+ many, many packages have been updated to newer versions, to take
advantage of fixes and improved functionality.  The following versions
of packages are included in the pkgsrc-2008Q3 branch:
 
	+ apache-2.2.9
	+ firefox-2.0.0.17 and firefox-3.0.3
	+ gnome-2.22.3
	+ kde-3.5.10
	+ mysql-5.0.67
	+ openoffice-2.4.1nb3
	+ opera-9.52
	+ postgresql-8.3.3
	+ python-2.5.2nb4
	+ ruby-1.8.7.22
	+ samba-3.0.32
	+ seamonkey-1.1.12
	+ wireshark-1.0.3
	+ zope-3.3.1
 
+ other notable changes include
	+ Steve Bellovin has updated the claws email suite
	+ Stoned Elipot and Havard Eidnes have made it their personal
	  goal to incorporate all the CPAN packages into pkgsrc
	+ thanks to Matthias Drochner for keeping on top of all the
	  gnome packages, and to Mark Davies for our kde packages
	+ video support has been vastly enhanced-- NetBSD-current now
	  has support for some video devices, and Jared Mcneill has
	  added and extended quite a few packages for that (libv4l,
	  unicap, cheese, ucview, opal, ekiga, tvtime; extended
	  mplayer, gst-plugins0.10-good).
	+ the addition of some interesting, pertinent, and shiny
	  packages such as ampache, bzrtools, cheese, cvsutils,
	  dbeacon, ddrescue, diskscrub, docker, drill, emutos, enma,
	  fs-utils, gtkimageview, hunspell packages, iwn-firmware,
	  jdbc-postgresql83, ldns, libmtp, libslang2, libv4l,
	  loggerhead, lzmalib, mico, mnemosyne, nipper, openaxiom,
	  otf2bdf, p5-Catalyst packages, p5-Perl6-Junction, py-babel,
	  py-pygments, rrdtool12, sqlsharpgtk, squid3, sshfp, tdl,
	  tvtime, typolight and typo3, xapian, xentools33, and xlt
 
The list of platforms supported by pkgsrc is AIX, BSD/OS, Darwin (Mac
OS X), DragonFly BSD, FreeBSD, HP/UX, IRIX, Interix, Linux, NetBSD,
OSF1, OpenBSD, QNX and SunOS (Solaris).  We are aware that support for
some platforms is at a more mature stage than others, and would like
to encourage feedback from users and developers on our more esoteric
platforms.
 
+ continuing engineering on the "stable" branches of pkgsrc has been
revitalised, and our release engineering team has done a marvellous
job in pulling up changes to the stable branch.  Our thanks go to them
for all the hard work they do in sanity checking pullup requests, and
managing the stable branches in pkgsrc.
 
+ constant bulk building on a number of platforms has improved our
ability to identify potential areas of concern, and to correct them
sooner.  It has also improved our ability to make binary packages
available, and we are working on ways to improve this further.  For
more information, please refer to the pkgsrc-bulk mailing list,
archives available at
 
	http://mail-index.netbsd.org/pkgsrc-bulk/
 
+ the number of packages has been increased to 7995; the number of
supported platforms is currently 14, with another one on the horizon. 
NetBSD, on all its supported architectures, is considered to be one
pkgsrc platform.
 
As always, we'd like to encourage users of the packages collection to
audit-packages at least every day - this will provide notification of
any packages which are vulnerable to exploit.  Audit-packages is now
part of the new pkg_install tools, and is now much quicker.  We have
removed the old audit-packages package in this pkgsrc release. 
Recently Tonnerre Lombard has joined the pkgsrc-security team, and has
made a lot of additions to the list of vulnerable packages - a very
useful and thorough job - we are grateful to him.  The pkgsrc-security
team do a marvellous job in tracking notifications of vulnerabilities
in packages, and disseminating this information, and our sincere
thanks go to them for this essential work.
 
We'd also really appreciate it if people would install the
pkgsrc/pkgtools/pkgsurvey package, and then run the pkgsurvey script
for us.  This will forward us a list of the packages installed on that
machine, and the operating system and release level of the operating
system.  The results will be kept confidential, but the output will
help us analyse the packages that are most used.
 
The source tar files for the new branch can be found at:
 
	ftp://ftp.NetBSD.org/pub/pkgsrc/pkgsrc-2008Q3/pkgsrc-2008Q3.tar.gz
		or
	ftp://ftp.NetBSD.org/pub/pkgsrc/pkgsrc-2008Q3/pkgsrc-2008Q3.tar.bz2
 
You can also use the "pkgsrc-2008Q3" tag to check it out yourself from
anoncvs.NetBSD.org or any of the mirrors.
 
Alistair Crooks
On behalf of the Packages Team
The NetBSD Foundation
