The pkgsrc-2009Q2 Branch
========================
 
The pkgsrc developers are very proud to announce the new pkgsrc-2009Q2
branch, which has support for even more packages than previous branches. 
As well as updated versions of many packages, the infrastructure of
pkgsrc itself has been improved for better platform and compiler
support.
 
At the same time, the pkgsrc-2009Q1 branch has been deprecated, and
continuing engineering starts on the pkgsrc-2009Q2 branch.
 
Some highlights of the new pkgsrc-2009Q2 branch are:
 
+ license checking has been extended to open source licensed packages
+ iMil's pkgin binary package manager has been added
+ many, many packages have been updated to newer versions, to take
  advantage of fixes and improved functionality.  The following
  versions of packages are included in the pkgsrc-2009Q2 branch:
 
	+ apache-2.2.11nb6
	+ firefox-2.0.0.20 and firefox-3.0.11
	+ gnome-2.26.2
	+ kde-3.5.10nb3
	+ mysql-5.0.67nb3
	+ openoffice-2.4.2nb7 and openoffice-3.1.0
	+ perl-5.10.0nb6
	+ postgresql-8.2.13 and postgresql-8.3.7
	+ python-2.5.4 and python-2.6.2nb1
	+ ruby-1.8.7.174
	+ samba-3.0.34
	+ seamonkey-1.1.17
	+ subversion-1.6.1
	+ wireshark-1.2.1
	+ zope-3.3.1
 
+ other notable changes include
	+ we bid a fond thanks, and farewell, to some old favourites,
	  such as firefox-gtk1, and sqlitemanager
	+ the addition of some interesting, pertinent, and shiny
	  packages such as asterisk16, gammu, eina, matio, xsd, a
	  whole new TeX distribution, ninvaders, circos, gimmage,
	  python26, gtk-vnc, pkgin, netpgp, agedu, libnxml, xml2,
	  etm, opengoo, squid31, typolight27, wmd, wordpress, libxcb
	  and related packages, and qt4-mysql
 
The list of platforms supported by pkgsrc is AIX, BSD/OS, Darwin (Mac
OS X), DragonFly BSD, FreeBSD, HP/UX, IRIX, Interix, Linux, NetBSD,
OSF1, OpenBSD, QNX and SunOS (Solaris).  We are aware that support for
some platforms is at a more mature stage than others, and would like
to encourage feedback from users and developers on our more esoteric
platforms.
 
+ continuing engineering on the "stable" branches of pkgsrc continues
to work well, and our release engineering team has done a marvellous
job in pulling up changes to the stable branch.  Our thanks go to
Geert Hendrickx, Matthias Scheler, Tyler Retzlaff, and S.P.Zeidler for
all the hard work they do in sanity checking pullup requests, and
managing the stable branches in pkgsrc.
 
+ constant bulk building on a number of platforms has improved our
ability to identify potential areas of concern, and to correct them
sooner.  It has also improved our ability to make binary packages
available, and we are working on ways to improve this further.  For
more information, please refer to the pkgsrc-bulk mailing list,
archives available at
 
	http://mail-index.netbsd.org/pkgsrc-bulk/
 
+ the number of packages has been increased to 8852; the number of
supported platforms is currently 14, with another one on the horizon. 
NetBSD, on all its supported architectures, is considered to be one
pkgsrc platform.
 
As always, we'd like to encourage users of the packages collection to
audit-packages at least every day - this will provide notification of
any packages which are vulnerable to exploit.  Audit-packages is now
part of the new pkg_install tools, and is now much quicker.  We have
removed the old audit-packages package in this pkgsrc release. 
 
The pkgsrc-security team do a marvellous job in tracking notifications
of vulnerabilities in packages, and disseminating this information,
and our sincere thanks go to them for this essential work.
 
We'd also really appreciate it if people would install the
pkgsrc/pkgtools/pkgsurvey package, and then run the pkgsurvey script
for us.  This will forward us a list of the packages installed on that
machine, and the operating system and release level of the operating
system.  The results will be kept confidential, but the output will
help us analyse the packages that are most used.
 
The source tar files for the new branch can be found at:
 
	ftp://ftp.NetBSD.org/pub/pkgsrc/pkgsrc-2009Q2/pkgsrc-2009Q2.tar.gz
		or
	ftp://ftp.NetBSD.org/pub/pkgsrc/pkgsrc-2009Q2/pkgsrc-2009Q2.tar.bz2
 
You can also use the "pkgsrc-2009Q2" tag to check it out yourself from
anoncvs.NetBSD.org or any of the mirrors.
 
Alistair Crooks
On behalf of the Packages Team
The NetBSD Foundation
