The pkgsrc-2007Q2 Branch
========================
 
The pkgsrc developers are very proud to announce the new pkgsrc-2007Q2
branch, which has support for more packages than previous branches. 
As well as updated versions of many packages, the infrastructure of
pkgsrc itself has been improved for better platform and compiler
support.
 
At the same time, the pkgsrc-2007Q1 branch has been deprecated, and
continuing engineering starts on the pkgsrc-2007Q2 branch.
 
Some highlights of the new pkgsrc-2007Q2 branch are:
 
+ many, many packages have been updated to newer versions, to take
advantage of fixes and improved functionality.  The following versions
of packages are included in the pkgsrc-2007Q2 branch:
 
	+ apache-2.2.4
	+ firefox-2.0.0.4
	+ gnome-2.18.1
	+ kde-3.5.7
	+ mysql-5.0.41
	+ openoffice-2.2.1
	+ opera-9.21
	+ postgresql-8.2.4
	+ ruby-1.8.6
	+ samba-3.0.24
	+ seamonkey-1.1.2
	+ thunderbird-2.0.0.4
	+ wireshark-0.99.5
	+ zope-3.3.1
 
In addition, the default versions of firefox and thunderbird have been
set to the 2.0.0.x versions, replacing the previous 1.5.0.x versions
(which have been kept in www/firefox15, mail/thunderbird15, but are no
longer the default).
 
+ other changes include
	+ more modular X11 packages have been added, including the modular
	  X server modules, and many X clients. With the pkgsrc-2007Q2
	  branch, the "xorg" X11_TYPE will become obsolete.
	+ we have continued to develop our "filesystems" category
	+ the adoption of a new bulk building system, pbulk, by Joerg
	  Sonnenberger
	+ the addition of some pertinent bright, shiny packages such
	  as opengrok, roundcube, more modular x11 clients, coda, tea,
	  t-prot, u9fs, teamspeak-server, fuse-gphotofs, alpine, goffice,
	  mecab, qtplay, fuse-obexfs, fuse-wdfs, tesseract, sparse, htop,
	  ragel, xhtmldiff, mimetex, antiright, psvn, planner, ipbt,
	  dvdisaster, deskmenu and freepops
 
To the list of platforms supported by pkgsrc - AIX, BSD/OS, Darwin
(Mac OS X), DragonFly BSD, FreeBSD, IRIX, Interix, Linux, NetBSD,
OSF1, OpenBSD, and SunOS (Solaris) - we are proud to welcome HP/UX,
thanks to Tobias Nygren, and we will extend the list of supported
platforms still further in the next few months.
 
+ the pkgsrc-2007Q2 branch introduces support for case-insensitive
filesystems, which makes bootstrapping pkgsrc much simpler on the
average Mac. We encourage our Darwin and OS X users to try it out and
report any problems.
 
Our plans are for this to become the recommended Darwin configuration
for the pkgsrc-2007Q3 branch, and to get rid of darwindiskimage and
the related information in the documents.
 
+ continuing engineering on the "stable" branches of pkgsrc continues,
and our thanks to the pkgsrc releng team for all the hard work they do
in sanity checking pullup requests, and managing the stable branches
in pkgsrc.
 
+ constant bulk building on a number of platforms has improved our
ability to identify potential areas of concern, and to correct them
sooner.  It has also improved our ability to make binary packages
available, and we are working on ways to improve this further.  For
more information, please refer to the pkgsrc-bulk mailing list,
archives available at
 
	http://mail-index.netbsd.org/pkgsrc-bulk/
 
+ the number of packages has been increased to 7181; the number of
supported platforms has risen to 13.  NetBSD, on all its supported
architectures, is considered to be one pkgsrc platform.
 
As always, we'd like to encourage users of the packages collection to
install and run pkgsrc/security/audit-packages at least every day -
this will provide notification of any packages which are vulnerable to
exploit.  The pkgsrc-security team do a marvellous job in tracking
notifications of vulnerabilities in packages, and disseminating this
information, and our sincere thanks go to them for this essential work.
 
We'd also really appreciate it if people would install the
pkgsrc/pkgtools/pkgsurvey package, and then run the pkgsurvey script
for us.  This will forward us a list of the packages installed on that
machine, and the operating system and release level of the operating
system.  The results will be kept confidential, but the output will
help us analyse the packages that are most used.
 
The source tar files for the new branch can be found at:
 
	ftp://ftp.NetBSD.org/pub/pkgsrc/pkgsrc-2007Q2/pkgsrc-2007Q2.tar.gz
		or
	ftp://ftp.NetBSD.org/pub/pkgsrc/pkgsrc-2007Q2/pkgsrc-2007Q2.tar.bz2
 
You can also use the "pkgsrc-2007Q2" tag to check it out yourself from
anoncvs.NetBSD.org or any of the mirrors.
 
Alistair Crooks
On behalf of the Packages Team
The NetBSD Foundation
